# vk-ffi

## Motivation

This crate provides complete, cross-platform bindings to the Vulkan API
which are automatically generated by [`bindgen`][bindgen]. The resulting
bindings are:

* **Complete**: Every command, constant, struct, and extension is
  exposed.
* **Up-to-date**: The bindings are (or may be) updated with every
  revision to the API.
* **Correct**: The chance is small for an incorrectly defined constant
  to cause surprising runtime errors.
* **Portable**: The Vulkan core API is cross-platform and
  backwards-compatible by design.
* **Maintainable**: Writing fully custom code generators requires
  meticulously imitating the behavior of the Khronos Group's C header
  generator in certain cases.
* **Interoperable**: Interop with code written to the Vulkan API in any
  language is trivial, and loaders, frameworks, tutorials, and libraries
  written in Rust may choose to target these particular bindings to
  maximize interoperability.

While `bindgen` has its drawbacks, it seems to provide the best option
for producing robust, practical applications here-and-now, as well as
for providing the foundation for a potential ecosystem of Vulkan
frameworks, libraries, and applications using Rust.

[bindgen]: https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/rust-bindgen

## Versioning

The current versioning scheme is `0.xx.y`, where `y` is the library
patch number and `xx` is the patch number of the currently exposed
Vulkan API version (i.e. `1.1.xx`). Long-term versioning is TBD.

TODO: This versioning scheme is completely stupid; no benefits at all.

## Contents

The top-level module includes every constant, type, and function pointer
definition from `vulkan_core.h` (some preprocessor defines excluded).
Names have been transformed to fit the Rust idiom, but definitions are
otherwise unchanged.

Global function prototypes are not exported, as they are better left a
responsibility of loader libraries.

Definitions from the platform headers are TBD; the current expectation
is for applications to integrate with GLFW or equivalent. The Windows
headers may take a little extra work.

Some Rust macros are also exported, including Rust-specific convenience
macros.
